## notes (Introduction to JavaScript Security)

### 0:01
Hello and welcome to secure Javascript programming. I am Vladimir de Turckheim and I've been walking in application security for over five years in a security startup named screen. I've also been speaking at multiple conferences around the world. Whether in the Javascript world or in the application security world. I am an official Node.js contributor and I've been having commit rights on Node.js for multiple rights. I must be specializing on web security. Node.js security and Javascript security.
Play video starting at ::41 and follow transcript
### 0:41
So JavaScript is one of the most widely used language in the world. Virtually it's everywhere. And I don't think you can have any programming carrier without using Javascript at one point. It's used of course in web browsers in websites, but also on the service side with Node.js and even databases support Javascript. The most well known database to choose Javascript out of the books is MongoDB. Javascript is even used in space exploration mission by nasa or SpaceX. It's a language that is everywhere. And when having a technology that is so widely used, the question of security is legitimate. In this learning path, we will study javascript security and understand the threats your face of javascript applications. In this path, we will cover web browser security. We will talk about authentication, cross site scripting Xss cross site resource forgery CSRF, browser protections cause clickjacking. What are these? Were, how do you prevent attacks? We will also talk about things that are related to the language itself. For instance, prototype pollutions or malicious regular expressions that are inherent problems to the javascript language that can be used in a weird way. And can lead to security issues. Also, Node.js and JavaScripts have the most wide ecosystem in programming in the world. This goes through the NPM ecosystem and we will study the security of the NPM model. What to do if one of the model we use is marked as vulnerable? And how one would attack applications from the supply chain.
Play video starting at :2:46 and follow transcript
### 2:46
Also in this learning path, I have integrated across about serverless functions. Serverless is mostly used in cloud programming. And is more and more used in Web applications. We want to know what are the security postures of Web applications that are developed with several technologies. Whether they're AWS landers, Google functions, Google firebase or alternatives. So if you're interested in modern cloud applications, you might want to take this course in particular. Join me for more Javascript Fun. I'm really excited to have you join this course. And I am very excited to teach all I know about JavaScript security. Have a great day and see you soon.
